# 11.2.2.3 Lab - User Accounts

## Introduction

In this lab, you will create user accounts in Windows.

## Recommended Equipment

- PC with Windows installed

## Instructions

### Part 1: Account Creation

In this part, you will create a new local user account. Windows allows local account creation using online Microsoft accounts, but this will not be done in this lab. After you have created the accounts using a version of Windows, go to Parts 2 and 3.

#### Step 1: Open the User Account Tool
a. Log on to the computer with an Administrator account.
b. Click Control Panel. Change to the small icons view in the Control Panel. Click User Accounts.

#### Step 2: Create a local user account in Windows 10
a. The User Accounts window opens. Click Manage another account.
b. The Manage Accounts window opens. Click Add a new user in PC settings.
c. In Family & other users window click Add someone else to this PC.
d. In the How will this person sign in? window click I don’t have this person’s sign-in information.
e. Click Add a user without a Microsoft account.
f. In the Create an account for this PC window, enter a username and password provided by your instructor in the field. Choose your security questions and provide the answer to the selected questions. Click Next to continue.

#### Step 3: Create an Account in Windows 8.x
a. The User Accounts window opens. Click Manage another account.
b. The Manage Accounts window opens. Click Add a new user in PC settings.
c. The Manage other accounts window opens. Click Add an account.
d. The How will this person sign in? window opens. Click Sign in without a Microsoft account (not recommended).
e. The Add a user window opens. Click Local account.
f. The second Add a user window opens. Type the name provided by your instructor in the User name field.
g. Type in the password provided by the instructor in the Password field.
h. Re-enter the password in the Reenter password field.
i. Type a hint to help you remember the password in the Password hint field. Click Next.
j. The final Add a user window opens. Click Finish.

#### Step 4: Create an Account in Windows 7
a. The User Accounts window opens. Click Manage another account.
b. The Manage Accounts window opens. Click Create a new account.
c. The Create New Account window opens. Type the name provided by your instructor in the Name the account and choose an account type field and select Standard user as the account type.

**Questions:**
- What can a user do with a limited account?
- What limitations does this type of an account have?
- What information is listed for the new account?

Type your answers here.

d. Click Create Account to continue.
e. Click the user account you just created.
f. The Make changes to Username’s account? window opens. Click Create a password.
g. Type in the password and password hint provided by the instructor and then click Create password.

### Part 2: Change the Account Type
a. Navigate to the Control Panel. In the small icons view click User Accounts > Click Manage another account.
b. Select the newly created account.
c. Click Change the account type.
d. Select Administrator as the account type and click Change Account Type.

**Question:**
- What is the advantage of having most users work within a Standard user account?

Type your answers here.

### Part 3: Delete the Account
a. Navigate to the Control Panel. Change back to the Category view click User Accounts in Windows 10 or User Accounts and Family Safety in Windows 8.1 and 7.
b. Click Remove user accounts in Windows 10 and 8.1 or Add or remove user accounts in Windows 7.
c. Select the account to be deleted. Click Delete the account.

**Question:**
- For this lab select Delete Files. What are the other options? When would you choose the other options?

Type your answers here.

d. Click Delete Account to confirm the account deletion.
e. Notice the account is no longer listed. Close all open windows.

## Reflection Questions
1. Why is it important to protect all accounts with strong passwords?
2. Why would you create a user with Standard privileges?
3. In what type of situation would an IT administrator delete a user account and choose to keep the files of that user account instead of deleting them?

Type your answers here.

## End of Document
