# 11.4.1.5 Lab - Work in the Windows Command Shell

## Introduction

In this lab, you will use CLI commands to manage files and folders in Windows.

## Recommended Equipment

- A computer running Windows

## Instructions

### Step 1: Access the Windows command prompt.
a. Log on to a computer as a user with administrative privileges. The account ITEUser is used as the example user account throughout this lab.
b. To access the Windows command prompt click Start and type cmd. Select Command Prompt or cmd.exe to continue.

### Step 2: Display command help from the command prompt.
a. At the command prompt type help and press Enter. A list of commands is displayed.
b. To see the help information one page at a time enter the command `help | more`. Press spacebar to see the next page.
c. Press q or Ctrl-C to exit after reviewing the command list.

**Questions:**
- What happens when you press enter?
  `Type your answers here.`
- Fill out the functions of the following commands:
  - CD: `Type your answer here.`
  - CHKDSK: `Type your answer here.`
  - COPY: `Type your answer here.`
  - DEL: `Type your answer here.`
  - DIR: `Type your answer here.`
  - DISKPART: `Type your answer here.`
  - EXIT: `Type your answer here.`
  - FORMAT: `Type your answer here.`
  - GPRESULT: `Type your answer here.`
  - MD: `Type your answer here.`
  - TASKLIST: `Type your answer here.`
  - RD: `Type your answer here.`
  - ROBOCOPY: `Type your answer here.`
  - SHUTDOWN: `Type your answer here.`
  - XCOPY: `Type your answer here.`

d. Type `md /?` to display help for the `md` command.

**Questions:**
- How would you create the folders C:\Users\ITEUser\a\b\c if your current directory is C:\Users\ITEUser?
  `Type your answers here.`
- What command would you use to verify the creation of the nested directories?
  `Type your answers here.`

e. Clear the screen using the command line.

**Question:**
- What command did you use?
  `Type your answers here.`

f. Press F7 for the command history.

**Question:**
- What is the last command that you have used?
  `Type your answers here.`

g. Press up arrow to display the last command used.

**Question:**
- What is the last command?
  `Type your answers here.`

h. To exit the command prompt enter `exit`.

## End of Document
